.TH BOOTSTRAP 1
.SH NAME
bootstrap \- download or install binaries from Debian for bootstrapping
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bootstrap
\fBARCH=\fIarchitecture
.br
.B bootstrap
.I command
.br
.B bootstrap help
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B bootstrap
provides a utility to download and optionally install Debian-format packages
from the Debian archives to support bootstrapping self-hosted compilers in
environments that are ABI-compatible with Debian.
.PP
To use, adjust \fIbootstrap.conf\fR to match the needs of the bootstrap
underway, create a configuration script that will make the result usable
on the target system (this replaces the Debian maintainer scripts, which
are otherwise not run, and use the \fBbootstrap ARCH=\fIarchitecture\fR form
to install and configure the bootstrap packages.
.PP
In the event the target environment has restrictions on the sources from which
software may be installed, or limited access to network resources, the cache
facility allows downloading binary packages into the bootstrap working
directory.
In the event the cache is prepopulated when \fBbootstrap\fR is run, no network
access is required, and \fBbootstrap\fR will install from the cache.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B bootstrap ARCH=\fIarchitecture
Install Debian binaries for \fIarchitecture\fR on the local system.
.TP
.B bootstrap cache
Populate the package cache with .deb files for all supported architectures
.TP
.B bootstrap \fIarchitecture\fB.cache
Poplate the package cache with .deb files for \fIarchitecture\fR only
.TP
.B bootstrap clearcache
Remove the local package cache
.TP
.B bootstrap help
Show this help
.SH CONFIGURATION
.TP
.B SOURCE
The source package to be bootstrapped.
.TP
.B PACKAGES
The list of binary packages required to bootstrap the source.
.TP
.B VERSION
The base Debian revision to use for bootstrapping.
.TP
.B ARCHES
The architectures to which Debian has bootstrapped the source.
Alternately, the architectures to be downloaded with the \fBcache\fR command.
.TP
.B MIRROR
The preferred Debian mirror.
.TP
.B CONFSCRIPT
The configuration script to run once packages are unpacked on the local system.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I bootstrap.conf
bootstrap configuration file
.TP
.I pkgcache/*.deb
Debian binary package files cached for use in future runs
.SH BUGS
\fBbootstrap\fR does not support complex boostrapping environments, where
binary packages from multiple source packages are required to bootstrap
the package.
In such situations, one may run bootstrap multiple times, with appropriate
adjustments to the configuration file.  Support for specifying the configuration
file on the command line would be a better solution.
.PP
\fBbootstrap\fR does not support Debian archive mirrors with nonstandard
file layouts, or prefixes other than /debian/.
These are controlled in the srcpath and deb2url functions, in the event
that some user requires local modifications.
.PP
\fBbootstrap\fR does not guard the details of implementation sufficiently
from the user, which may cause confusion due to the strict syntax of the
configuration file, and the opacity of some error messages.
